rename okta mcp server (#6321)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/mcp-server/index.md

    content: Connect LLMs to Okta with the Model Context Protocol (MCP).
---

# Manage Okta APIs with the Okta Open Source MCP server

The Okta Model Context Protocol (MCP) server securely connects AI agents and Large Language Models (LLMs) to an Okta org. This abstraction layer enables AI agents and LLMs to interact with Okta admin management APIs using natural language commands.

The Okta Open Source MCP server translates natural language instructions into structured API calls between LLM clients and an Okta org using Okta's Python SDK v3.4.1. This approach reduces security risks and complexity when connecting autonomous AI agents to Identity and Access Management (IAM) systems. The architecture ensures that AI actions remain secure, properly scoped, and fully auditable.

> IT admins, developers, and security professionals use the Okta Open Source MCP server to automate Okta administration through AI-powered interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IT admins, developers, and security professionals use the Okta Open Source MCP server to automate Okta admin tasks through AI-powered interfaces.
```

## Secure AI agent interactions

The Okta Open Source MCP server implements AI agent identity security through the following methods:

### Principle of least privilege

The Okta Open Source MCP server ensures AI agents possess only the minimum permissions required for specific tasks.

- The server manages authentication through OAuth 2.0 scopes and environment variables.
- The server dynamically registers tools based on the granted API scopes of the Okta admin app, ensuring the LLM only sees authorized capabilities.
- The system blocks unauthorized API calls before those calls reach the org.

### Audibility and traceability

> The Okta Open Source MCP server maintains a detailed record of all agent interactions to support security monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Okta Open Source MCP server maintains a detailed record of all AI agent interactions to support security monitoring.
```

- The server creates a complete audit trail of all AI agent activities.
- The system integrates with Okta system logs for centralized monitoring and security investigations.
- The server provides data to support compliance requirements and internal security audits.

## How the Okta Open Source MCP server works

The following process describes how an LLM translates a request and how the Okta Open Source MCP server executes the API call against Okta APIs.

<div class="full">

![Okta Open Source MCP server data flow diagram](/img/concepts/mcp-server-flow-diagram.png)

</div>

1. **User command**: A user or AI agent (such as GitHub Copilot or Claude Desktop) sends a natural language command through an MCP-compatible client to perform an Okta task.
1. **Client routing**: The MCP client (which hosts the AI agent) securely routes the command to the active Okta Open Source MCP server instance.
1. **Server authentication**: The Okta Open Source MCP server authenticates with the org using the pre-configured credentials, such as Device Authorization Grant or Private Key JWT.

> 1. **Scope validation**: The Okta Open Source MCP server validates scope twice. First, it filters tools during startup. Second, it uses a scope guard decorator to confirm active permissions immediately before executing a command and calling the API.

Reviewer: I know this text already exists, but I wonder if we could make it clearer:

- What is "startup"? Is it different from sign in? 
- Does this edit to the second sentence change the meaning or is it okay? "Second, it uses a scope guard decorator to confirm active permissions immediately before ~~executing~~ it executes a command and ~~calling~~ calls the API."

Author: we can use sign in, it wont change the meaning

Author: used sign in
